

Chapter01
Introduction

Data item: the basic component of a file in a file system, the smallest named unit of data that has meaning in the real world.

Database life cycle
1.) Requirements analysis: determined by interviewing both the producers and users of data and using the information to produce a formal requirements specification.
2.) Logical design: the global schema, a conceptual data model diagram that shows all the data and their relationships developed using Entity-Relationship (ER) or UML.
a.) Conceptual data modeling
b.) View integration: when the design and team are large, multiple views of data and relationships occur
c.) Transformation of the conceptual data model to SQL tables
d.) Normalization of tables
3.) Physical design: involves the selection of indexes (access methods), partitioning and clustering data
4.) Database implementation, monitoring, and modification



Chapter02
The Entity-Relationship Model

The ER model has 2 levels of definition:
1.) Simple: used by current design tools,
2.) Complex

The basic ER model consists of 3 classes of objects:
1.) Entities
principal data objects about which information is collected.
Entity instance (Entity Occurrence): a particular occurrence of an entity.

2.) Relationships
represent real-world associations among 1 or more entities, have no physical or conceptual existence other than that which depends upon their entity associations.

3.) Attributes
Attributes: are characteristics of entities that provide descriptive detail about them.
Attribute value: a particular instance (or occurrence) of an attribute within an entity or relationship.
2 types of attributes:
1.) Identifiers (key): used to uniquely determine an instance of an entity.
2.) Descriptors (nonkey attribute): used to specify a non-unique characteristic of a particular entity instance.



































































