Export Options for PDFs
PostScript
-Encapsulated PostScript (I think worked)
-Postscript (I don't think I used this)


Chapter 01
PDF = Portable Document Format
A page description language describes the contents of a printed/onscreen page using highly structured data, when the exact presentation of the content is important
Tools:
-pdftk
-Ghostscript

Specialized Kinds of PDF
PDF/A for long-term archiving. Includes PDF/A-1b and PDF/A-1a
PDF/X standard for graphics exhcange in the printing industry

DocBook system: takes a structured document in XML format and typesets it and produces a PDF complete with hyperlinks and bookmarks

Chapter 02
Creating a pdf
A PDF file contains at least 3 distinct languages:
1.) Document content: the number of objects with links between them forming a directed graph. Describes the structure of the document (pages, metadata, fonts, resources)
2.) Page content: described using a series of operators for placing text and graphics on a single page
3.) File structure: consists of a header, trailer and cross-reference table helping programs to locate and read the file's contents

Document Content:
Names writtern as /Name
Integers like 50
Strings introduced with brackets (Test String)
References 2 O R a reference to object 2
Arrays [50 30 /Fred] an array of 50, 30, Fred
Dictionaries <</Three 3 /Five 5>> maps to Three to 3 and Five to 5

Page Content: a list of operators each of which is preceded by 0 or more operands

File structure consists of:
1.) Header: to distinguish the file as a PDF document
2.) Cross-reference table: listing the byte offsets of each object in the document, allows the objects to be accessed arbitrarily
3.) Trailer: includes the byte offset of the cross-reference table followed by the end-of-file marker

Document structure
Trailer dictionary: provides information about how to read the rest of the objects in the file
Document catalog: which is the root of object graph
Page tree: enumerates the pages in the document
At least 1 page that must include:
-its resources
-page content: contains the instructions for drawing text and graphics on the page

line endings
<CR> Unix and Mac
<CR><LF> Windows









Chapter 03



Chapter 09
Pdftk command line elements need to appear in certain order
1.) The input file or files, and possible input passwords
2.) The operation and any arguments it requires
3.) The output and any output passwords and permissions
4.) Sundry output and other options



Chapter 10
PDF Viewers
Xpdf for Linux
GSview for Windows, Linux

Software Libraries
iText for Java and C#



























